[Term Entry] D3 Interactivity .ease() added (#4054)
Codecademy/docs: content/d3/concepts/interactivity/terms/ease/ease.md

---
Title: '.ease()'
Description: 'Specifies the easing function for transitions.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Visualization'
  - 'Animations'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Animations'
  - 'Selection'
  - 'Transitions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-d3'
  - 'paths/web-development'
---

> The **`.ease()`** method is specific to the D3.js library, which is primarily used for data visualization on the web. It allows you to control the timing and pacing of transitions in animations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`.ease()`** method is specific to the D3.js library, this is primarily used to add an easing effect to a transition. It allows to control the timing and pacing of transitions in animations.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
selection.transition()
    .duration(duration)
    .ease(easingFunction);
```

- `selection`: The selection of DOM elements to which transition will be applied.
- `duration`: The time duration of the transition in milliseconds.

> - `easingFunction`: It is the easing function.

Reviewer: You should mention the different types of easing functions below this.

Subjects:
  - 'Data Visualization'
  - 'Animations'
Tags:
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Animations'
  - 'Selection'
  - 'Transitions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-d3'
  - 'paths/web-development'
---

The **`.ease()`** method is specific to the D3.js library, this is primarily used to add an easing effect to a transition. It allows to control the timing and pacing of transitions in animations.

## Syntax

```pseudo
selection.transition()
    .duration(duration)
    .ease(easingFunction);
```

- `selection`: The selection of DOM elements to which transition will be applied.
- `duration`: The time duration of the transition in milliseconds.
- `easingFunction`: It is the easing function.

Some of the commonly used built-in easing functions include:

- `d3.easeLinear`: Linear easing (constant speed).
- `d3.easeCubic`: Cubic easing, which accelerates and decelerates smoothly.
- `d3.easeSin`: Sinusoidal easing.
- `d3.easeQuad`: Quadratic easing.
- `d3.easeBounce`: Bouncing easing.
- `d3.easeElastic`: Elastic easing with customizable amplitude and period.
- `d3.easeCircle`: Circular easing, creating a circular motion.
- `d3.easeBack`: Back easing with customizable overshoot.

## Example

> Consider an HTML document with an SVG element containing a circle with the specified ID `myCircle`.
> Here's a simple HTML structure with D3.js code to create the transition animation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider an HTML document with an SVG element containing a circle with the specified ID `myCircle`. Here's a simple HTML structure with D3.js code to create the transition animation:

```

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8">
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0">
    <script src="https://d3js.org/d3.v5.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <svg width="400" height="300">
        <circle id="myCircle" cx="30" cy="40" r="40" fill="blue"></circle>
    </svg>

    <script>
        // D3.js code
        var circle = d3.select("#myCircle");

        // Apply a transition with a duration of 2000 milliseconds and linear easing
        circle.transition()
            .duration(2000)
            .ease(d3.easeLinear)
            .attr("cx", 200)
            .attr("cy", 40);
    </script>

</body>
</html>
```

In this example, the `.ease(d3.easeLinear)` specifies that the transition should use a linear easing function. It provides a constant speed to the motion of the circle throughout the transition, resulting in a straight-line movement from the initial position to the final position.

> 

Reviewer 2: Add a line describing that the following is the output of the given code.
